π
∗
0.6
: a VLA That Learns From Experience
Physical Intelligence
Ali Amin, Raichelle Aniceto, Ashwin Balakrishna, Kevin Black, Ken Conley, Grace Connors, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Jared DiCarlo,
Danny Driess, Michael Equi, Adnan Esmail, Yunhao Fang, Chelsea Finn, Catherine Glossop, Thomas Godden, Ivan Goryachev, Lachy Groom,
Hunter Hancock, Karol Hausman, Gashon Hussein, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Rowan Jen, Tim Jones, Ben Katz, Liyiming Ke,
Chandra Kuchi, Marinda Lamb, Devin LeBlanc, Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Yao Lu, Vishnu Mano, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch,
Allen Z. Ren, Charvi Sharma, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Laura Smith, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Kyle Stachowicz, Will Stoeckle, Alex Swerdlow,
James Tanner, Marcel Torne, Quan Vuong, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Blake Williams, Sukwon Yoo, Lili Yu, Ury Zhilinsky, Zhiyuan Zhou
https://pi.website/blog/pistar06
Fig. 1: RECAP enables training VLAs with reward feedback and interventions. Our system starts with a pre-trained VLA that incorporates advantage
conditioning, allowing the model to learn effectively from real-world experience. For each task, we deploy the model and collect both autonomous rollouts and
online human corrections. We then fine-tune the value function on this online data, improving its estimates of how actions influence performance. Fine-tuning
and conditioning the VLA on these updated advantage estimates in turn improves policy behavior.
Abstract—We study how vision-language-action (VLA) models
can improve through real-world deployments via reinforcement
learning (RL). We present a general-purpose method, RL with
Experience and Corrections via Advantage-conditioned Policies
(RECAP), that provides for RL training of VLAs via advantage
conditioning. Our method incorporates heterogeneous data into
the self-improvement process, including demonstrations, data
from on-policy collection, and expert teleoperated interventions
provided during autonomous execution. RECAP starts by pretraining a generalist VLA with offline RL, which we call π
∗
0.6,
that can then be specialized to attain high performance on
downstream tasks through on-robot data collection. We show
that the π
∗
0.6 model trained with the full RECAP method can
fold laundry in real homes, reliably assemble boxes, and make
espresso drinks using a professional espresso machine. On some
of the hardest tasks, RECAP more than doubles task throughput
and roughly halves the task failure rate.
I. INTRODUCTION
It’s amazing what you can learn if you’re not afraid to try.
Robert A. Heinlein, Have Space Suit–Will Travel
Practice makes perfect: while people are remarkably flexible
in acquiring new skills, mastery invariably requires learning
from repeated attempts. With general-purpose robotic foundation models, such as vision-language-action (VLA) models,
we can flexibly specify tasks for generalist robots through
prompts. But just like people, these models will need to
practice a skill to achieve mastery. This means leveraging not
only on demonstration data, but also autonomously collected
experiential data that allows the policy to correct the mistakes
that it actually makes in deployment, improve speed and
robustness beyond the level of human teleoperation, and adapt
to new deployment conditions. The foundations of learning
through autonomous practice, as formalized with reinforcement learning (RL) [1], have been known for decades, but
instantiating these principles in a general and scalable robotic
learning system presents significant challenges: designing
scalable and stable RL methods for large models, handling
heterogeneous data from different policies, and setting up RL
training with reward feedback in the real world, where reward
signals might be ambiguous or stochastic.
In this paper, we present RECAP, a method that enables
VLA models to incorporate reward feedback in all stages
of the training pipeline, from pre-training all the way to
training on data from autonomous execution. RECAP aims
to address this problem with a general-purpose recipe that
combines demonstrations, autonomous experience, and expert
interventions. Starting from the training recipe for a generalarXiv:2511.14759v2 [cs.LG] 19 Nov 2025
Fig. 2: Some of the tasks learned by RECAP. π
∗
0.6
trained with RECAP can make espresso drinks, assemble cardboard boxes, and fold diverse and realistic
laundry with a high success rate. Each task involves realistic variability – flattened unfolded boxes stick together and bend, making espresso drinks requires
pouring liquids, and folding laundry requires generalization to a wide range of clothing items.
purpose VLA and training on diverse data from many different
robotic platforms, RECAP first pre-trains the VLA with offline
RL, followed by additional training on data collected through
deployments. During these deployments, the robot receives
(sparse) reward feedback based on the outcome of each trial,
and potentially additional expert interventions that correct
mistakes. The training process follows an offline RL [2, 3]
recipe: we train a value function that evaluates progress toward
successful task completion, and then use this value function
to estimate the advantage of each action in the dataset. By
conditioning the policy on an improvement indicator based on
this advantage [4], we can obtain an improved policy. Figure 1
provides a high-level overview of RECAP.
We can use RECAP to train policies for complex tasks,
such as folding diverse laundry, assembling boxes, or making
espresso drinks. We illustrate some of these tasks in Figure 2.
The method starts by pre-training the π
∗
0.6 model with offline
RL on a diverse multi-task and multi-robot dataset. π
∗
0.6
is
an adaptation of the π0.6 model for RL, and π0.6 is an
improvement on π0.5 [5], adding a larger backbone and more
diverse conditioning [6]. π
∗
0.6
adds the ability to condition
on binarized advantage values, which makes it possible to
incorporate a value function to improve the policy. After pretraining π
∗
0.6 finetunes the π
∗
0.6 model to a downstream task
with demonstrations, and then performs one or more iterations
of on-robot data collection to improve the model with RL.
Training π
∗
0.6 with RECAP on autonomous experience more
than doubles the throughput on some of the hardest tasks,
and can decrease failure rates by 2× or more. This enables
π
∗
0.6
to reach practically useful levels of robustness: we were
able to run it to make espresso drinks for 13 hours straight,
fold novel laundry items in a new home for over two hours
without interruptions, and assemble boxes that are used for
real packaging in a factory.
While RECAP is based on individual algorithmic components that have been explored in prior works, the particular
combination of these components is novel, and the results
show, for the first time, that a general-purpose reinforcement
learning recipe with human reward feedback and interventions
can significantly improve both the robustness and throughput
of VLA models with experience collected through deployment.
II. RELATED WORK
Policies trained with imitation learning are known to suffer
from compounding errors [7] and, at best, can only be as
performant as the demonstration data. The goal of this work
is to improve the reliability and speed of vision-languageaction policies by going beyond imitation learning from offline
demonstrations. Prior works have used online interventions to
improve robotic manipulation policies [8–11]. We adopt a form
of such interventions, called human-gated DAgger [10, 12].
In contrast to these works, our method uses both expert
interventions and fully autonomous experience, resulting in
an RL-based framework that integrates multiple data sources.
There is a large body of work on using RL for autonomous
improvement of robotic manipulation policies [13–21], including methods using diffusion-based policies [22–24], in
multi-task settings [25, 26], and using pre-trained multi-task
policies [27–29]. Unlike these works, we study how to scale
real-world RL to large VLA policies for long-horizon, finegrained manipulation tasks.
Many recent works have studied how to improve a base
VLA model through RL. Several works directly apply the
proximal policy optimization (PPO) algorithm and variations
thereof to VLA fine-tuning [30–34], yielding approaches that
are difficult to extend to real-world RL in an efficient and
scalable fashion. Another line of research has explored RL
fine-tuning on top of pre-trained VLA models, where RL
either trains a residual policy [35, 36], fine-tunes an action
head network [37], selects or refines actions proposed by the
VLA [38–40], or optimizes a policy acting in the noise space
of a diffusion-based VLA [41]. Some of these works have also
explored ways to distill the learned behavior back into the
VLA for end-to-end iterative improvement [35, 36, 38, 42].
These prior works generally use discrete actions or simple
Gaussian continuous action distributions. A critical distinction
is that we train an entire VLA end-to-end using (iterated)
offline RL, with an expressive flow matching VLA model.
This is made possible by a simple and scalable advantageconditioned policy extraction method, which removes much of
the complexity of using policy gradient style objectives with
large VLA models. In our comparisons, we show that this
significantly outperforms a more traditional policy gradient
based extraction scheme.
More closely related to RECAP in terms of methodology,
a number of prior works have integrated value functions
and end-to-end RL training of VLAs on real robots [43–
46]. For example, Huang et al. [43] apply calibrated Qlearning to an offline demonstration dataset for grasping tasks,
without an online improvement phase. Zhang et al. [44] use
direct preference optimization (DPO) to optimize pick-andplace skills from human preferences, using online rollouts
from a VLA. Finally, Zhai et al. [45], Ghasemipour et al.
[46] use PPO and REINFORCE respectively with time-tocompletion value functions to train VLAs for tasks like moving
a bowl, unfolding a mat, and pushing objects on a table.
In contrast to these prior works, we describe an iterated
offline RL framework for VLAs with multiple advantages.
First, our method supports high-capacity diffusion and flowbased VLAs, unlike the discrete-action models studied in
prior works. Second, we avoid the need for on-policy PPO
or REINFORCE by using an advantage conditioning strategy
for policy extraction, which can utilize all prior (off-policy
or offline) data. Lastly, our evaluation consists of complex,
dexterous, and temporally extended tasks, where our method
increases throughput by about 2× while handling deformable
objects, liquids, and multi-stage tasks.
Prior works have explored the idea of conditioning the
policy on rewards, values, and advantages [47–56], including
methods that use classifier-free guidance [4]. We extend this
approach to pre-train and fine-tune a large-scale generalist
VLA policy [5], incorporating a variety of data sources (including demonstrations, interventions, and autonomous policy
roll-outs) to learn real robotic manipulation tasks. Recent
research has also studied how to effectively train multitask, language-conditioned reward functions [57–63] and value
functions [45, 64, 65]. Building on these works, we also train
a language-conditioned distributional value function, which allows us to estimate state-action advantages for our advantageconditioned VLA training framework.
III. PRELIMINARIES
Reinforcement learning. We consider the standard RL
setting in which an agent, given by a policy π(at|ot),
selects actions at given an observation ot ∈ O. We
define a trajectory as τ = (o0, a0, · · · , oT ) ∈ O × A · · · O.
A distribution over trajectories ρπ(τ ) is induced by the
policy π(at|ot) and the stochastic dynamics p(ot+1|ot, at):
ρπ(τ ) = p(o0)
QT −1
t=0 π(at|ot)p(ot+1|ot, at).
1 The reward
function is given by r(ot, at), and we abbreviate it to rt
to shorten notation, where rT is the terminal reward. We
can define the discounted cumulative reward, or return, as
R(τ ) = PT
t=0 rt (we do not use a discount factor, though one
could easily be added). The goal of RL is to maximize the
cumulative reward (or return), learning a policy that maximizes
J (π) = Eτ∼ρπ
[R(τ )] = Eτ∼ρπ
[
PT
t=0 rt]. The value function
for a policy π is then defined as V
π
(ot) = Eτt+1:T
[
PT
t=t
rt].
We can then calculate an advantage value for an action at as
Aπ
(ot, at) = Eρπ(τ)
[
Pt+N−1
t
′=t
rt
′ + V
π
(ot+N )] − V
π
(ot),
corresponding to an n-step estimate.
Regularized reinforcement learning. Instead of maximizing
J (π), it is common to use regularization in RL, optimizing
for a policy that maximizes reward while remaining close
to some reference policy πref [66–70]. This is important,
for example, when we want to train for many gradient
steps on the same data, in which case πref typically corresponds to the behavior policy that collected the training
data. This can be formalized via the objective J (π, πref) =
Eτ∼ρπθ
[
PT
t=0 γ
t
rt] − βEo∼ρπθ
[D(π(·|o)∥πref(·|o))], where
D denotes some divergence metric. For the case where
D is the KL divergence, we have the well-known result
that πˆ(a|o) ∝ πref(a|o) exp(Aπref(o, a)/β) is the solution to
maxπ J(π, πref), with Lagrange multiplier β [67–70]. Our
advantage-conditioned policy extraction method is based on
a closely related but less well-known result: if we define the policy πˆ(a|o) ∝ πref(a|o)p(I|Aπref(o, a))β
, where
p(I|Aπref(o, a)) = g(Aπref(o, a))/
R
g(Aπref(o, a
′
))da
′
is the
probability of any action a improving over πref as measured
by a monotonically increasing function g, then πˆ is guaranteed
to improve over πref, i.e., J (ˆπ) ≥ J (πref) [4, 71]. We will use
this property in deriving our policy extraction method in Section IV-B. Using this definition we can then obtain a parametric policy from the closed form definition of πˆ by solving the
following minimization problem: minθ Es∼ρπref
[KL(ˆπ, πθ)].
IV. RL WITH EXPERIENCE AND CORRECTIONS VIA
ADVANTAGE-CONDITIONED POLICIES (RECAP)
Our method consists of the follow steps, which can be
repeated one or more times to improve a base VLA model:
1) Data collection. We run the VLA on the task, labeling
each episode with task outcome labels (which determine
the reward), and optionally providing human interventions to provide examples of corrections for mistakes in
the earlier iterations.
2) Value function training. We use all of the data collected
so far to train a large, multi-task value function, which
we refer to as V
πref , that can detect failures and judge
the expected time to task completion.
3) Advantage conditioned training. To improve the VLA
policy with this value function, we include an optimality
indicator based on advantage values derived from this
1For simplicity, we assume the observation ot constitutes a valid Markovian
state. While not true in general, it is a common simplification in robotic RL.
value function in the VLA prefix. This “advantage
conditioned” recipe provides a simple and effective way
to extract a more optimal policy from our value function
with suboptimal data.
Figure 1 illustrates the overall structure of the training process, while Figure 3 provides more detailed specifics of the
value function and policy architectures. Our pre-training phase
consists of performing steps (2) and (3) above on our entire
pre-training dataset, which consists of tens of thousands of
hours of demonstrations from numerous tasks and a variety of
different robots. Then, we perform steps (1), (2), and (3) one
or more times to further improve the VLA with autonomously
collected data. We describe the value function training and
policy training steps below, and then present our specific
instantiation of this approach for training π
∗
0.6
in Section V.
A. Distributional value function training
To train a value function that can act as a reliable critic
for any task in our pre-training or post-training stages, we
represent V
πref with a multi-task distributional value function
pϕ(V |ot, ℓ) ∈ ∆B [72], mapping the observations ot and
language command ℓ to a distribution over B discretized
value bins. In our implementation, this value function uses the
same architecture as the VLA policy, but with a smaller VLM
backbone. Using Rt(τ ) = PT
t
′=t
rt
′ to denote the empirical
return of a trajectory τ from time step t until the end, we
train pϕ(V |ot, ℓ) by first discretizing the empirical return value
Rt(τ ) into B = 201 bins (using RB
t
to denote the discretized
returns), and then minimizing the cross-entropy H over the
trajectories in the current dataset D:
min
ϕ
Eτ∈D "X
ot∈τ
H(R
B
t
(τ ), pϕ(V |ot, ℓ))#
. (1)
This is a Monte Carlo estimator for the value function of
the policy represented by the dataset D (i.e., the behavior
policy πref). We can extract a continuous value function (and
thus an advantage) from the learned value distribution using
V
πref(ot, ℓ) = P
b∈[0,B]
pϕ(V = b|ot)v(b), where v(b) denotes
the value corresponding to bin b. During the pre-training phase,
the dataset D corresponds to the human demonstrations, and
the value function captures the expected return for the task
and metadata we condition on, while on subsequent iterations,
it skews toward a weighted combination of the return of the
demonstrations and the learned policy.
While this on-policy estimator is less optimal than a more
classic off-policy Q-function estimator, we found it to be
simple and highly reliable, while still allowing for substantial
improvement over imitation learning. Our method could be
extended to accommodate off-policy estimators in future work.
B. Policy extraction via advantage conditioning
Once we have the value function V
πref , we need a way
to train an improved policy using this value function. This
is called policy extraction. An effective policy extraction
method in our setting needs to satisfy several criteria. First,
Fig. 3: Interaction between the π
∗
0.6 VLA and value function during
RECAP training. The π
∗
0.6 VLA uses a pre-trained VLM backbone. Training
follows the KI recipe [73], with next-token prediction on many data sources in
pre-training, and an flow-matching action-expert with stop gradient. The VLA
is conditioned on a binarized advantage indicator, obtained from a separate
value function initialized from a pre-trained but smaller VLM model.
it needs to effectively utilize diverse off-policy data, comprising the initial demonstrations, the expert interventions, and
autonomous episodes from both the latest policy and older
policies. This is closely related to the challenge faced by
offline RL methods [2, 3]. Second, it needs to be scalable
and easily to apply to large VLA models, including models
that use flow matching or diffusion to generate actions. Third,
it needs to effectively utilize both good (near-optimal) and bad
(suboptimal) data, which is important if we want to improve
the policy using autonomous experience.
Among the existing methods for policy extraction, policy gradient methods (including regularized policy gradients
and reparameterized gradients) are perhaps the most widely
used [66, 74], but these methods are difficult to apply to flow
matching models, which do not readily provide a tractable
log-likelihood, making them hard to scale up to modern VLA
architectures (see comparisons in Section VI). An alternative is
to use weighted regression methods, such as AWR [68, 75, 76],
which implicitly provide for regularization to the behavior
policy and use a simple (importance-weighted) supervised
learning objective. However, these methods discard or significantly downweight a significant portion of the data, effectively
implementing a kind of filtered imitation technique. Instead,
we use a variant of advantage conditioning [48], where the
policy is trained on all of the data with supervised learning,
but with an additional input indicating how optimal the action
is based on the advantage. This is closely related to a variety of
methods in the literature that propose to condition the policy
on some function of the resulting trajectory [47, 50].
The specific formulation in our method is most closely related to CFGRL [4]. Building on the formulation in Section III,
we can apply Bayes rule to rewrite the probability of policy
Left arm swings up and crumples the folded shirt Recovers and folds Attempts to open fridge door Successfully opens fridge door Tips over water filter
Successful Episode: Folding Laundry Failure Episode: Open Fridge and Take Out Water Filter
Time (s) Time (s)
Fig. 4: Visualization of the value functions. We train a multi-task value function to predict the number of steps to success, normalized by maximum task
length to (−1, 0), where 0 corresponds to successful completion. We visualize the value function output on a folding task that finished successfully (left),
and an unsuccessful example of a manipulation task from the pre-training dataset (right). The red parts highlight a drop in value, and green parts highlight
increases; images on top show the corresponding frames of the episode. The visualization shows that the VF correctly identifies mistakes in the episode, as
well as the speed of progress.
improvement as p(I|Aπref(o, a)) = πref(a|I, o)/πref(a|o). Applying this to our setting and including language conditioning,
we can obtain an alternative closed form for the improved
regularized policy described in Section III as
πˆ(a, |o, ℓ) ∝ πref(a|o, ℓ)

πref(a|I, o, ℓ)
πref(a|o, ℓ)
β
. (2)
For the special case β = 1, πˆ(a, |o, ℓ) = πref(a|I, o, ℓ).
We can therefore represent πˆ without needing to explicitly
represent the improvement probability p(I|Aπref(o, a)), if we
train the policy so that it can represent both πref(a|o, ℓ) and
πref(a|I, o, ℓ). This principle is similar to the approach in
classifier-free guidance, where a diffusion model is trained
to model the data both with and without a conditioning
variable [4]. We assume the improvement indicator I follows
a delta distribution
p(I|A
πref(o, a, ℓ)) = δ(A
πref(o, a, ℓ) > ϵℓ),
with a task dependent improvement threshold ϵℓ. This threshold allows us to control the optimality indicator, and minimizes the need for finding an attenuation factor β to sharpen
the improvement conditioned distribution after training.2 The
policy objective then corresponds to minimizing the following
negative log-likelihood:
min
θ
EDπref h
− log πθ(at|ot, ℓ) − α log πθ(at|It, ot, ℓ)
i
,
where It = 1

A
πref(ot, at, ℓ) > ϵℓ

.
(3)
The advantage values Aπref(ot, at, ℓ) are obtained from the
value function in the previous section, and α is a tradeoff hyperparameter. In practice, the dataset Dπref consists of
all of the data collected so far, including all demonstrations
and autonomous task attempts, and the reference policy πref
is therefore a mixture of human behavior and previously
2Prior work [4] instead uniformly chose ϵ = 0 and tuned β at test time, as
in classifier-free guidance (CFG). However, high CFG weights can drive the
action distribution to the corners of its support (leading to aggressive behavior)
and would not affect the autoregressive part of the model. We found it easier to
obtain good results by instead using the threshold ϵℓ to trade off regularization
and optimality.
deployed policies. To include human corrections, we found it
useful to force It = True (i.e., positive) for actions provided
as human corrections during autonomous rollouts. This choice
is reasonable if we assume that human experts always provide
good corrective actions. As we will discuss in Section V, in
practice our VLA model produces both discrete and continuous outputs, with the continuous distribution represented via
flow matching. Therefore, the real training objective combines
likelihoods for the discrete values with the flow matching
objective for the continuous values.
In practice, we pre-train one model to represent
πθ(at|It, ot, ℓ) on our entire pre-training dataset, and then
perform one or more iterations of our method with on-policy
rollouts (and, optionally, expert corrective interventions) for
each task.
C. Method summary
We provide an overview of our full method in Algorithm 1.
As summarized at the beginning of this section, the method
can be fully defined through application of three subroutines:
collecting data through autonomous rollouts (with optional
corrective interventions from an expert), training a value function according to Equation 1, and training a policy according
to Equation 3. The only thing that changes between different
steps of the method is the data provided to each subroutine:
the pre-training stage uses all prior demonstration data, and
the training process for the specialists for each skill ℓ
(i)
uses additional autonomous data. In practice, the specialists
are fine-tuned from the pre-trained model, while the final
generalist is trained from scratch. Additional details on the
method are provided in Appendix F.
V. IMPLEMENTATION, MODEL, AND SYSTEM DETAILS
We instantiate RECAP with a VLA that we call π
∗
0.6
. π
∗
0.6
is based on the π0.6 VLA, which is an evolution of the π0.5
VLA [5] with a few improvements that we detail in the accompanying model card [6]. π
∗
0.6
additionally adds the ability
condition on the binarized advantage indicator It, making it
suitable for RL training with RECAP. The model architecture
is illustrated in Figure 3. We train a value function alongsid
Algorithm 1 RL with Experience and Corrections via
Advantage-conditioned Policies (RECAP)
Require: multi-task demonstration dataset Ddemo
1: Train Vpre on Ddemo using Eq. 1
2: Train πpre on Ddemo using Eq. 3 and Vpre
3: Initialize Dℓ with demonstrations for ℓ
4: Train V
0
ℓ
from Vpre on Dℓ using Eq. 1
5: Train π
0
ℓ
from πpre on Dℓ using Eq. 3 and V
0
ℓ
6: for k = 1 to K do
7: Collect data with π
k−1
ℓ
, add it to Dℓ
8: Train V
k
ℓ
from Vpre on Dℓ using Eq. 1
9: Train π
k
ℓ
from πpre on Dℓ using Eq. 3 and V
k
ℓ
10: end for
the VLA, following the method described in Section IV-A.
This value function is also initialized from a VLM. Training
this value function and VLA with RECAP results in our final
model, which we call π
∗
0.6
. In this section, we first elaborate
on the design of our model and how it can be extended to use
advantage values from the value function, then describe the
reward function and value function, and then elaborate on the
training and data collection process in our implementation.
A. The π0.6 model
The π0.6 model [6] is derived from the π0.5 model, which
can flexibly represent chunked action distributions via flow
matching and produce intermediate text for high-level policy
reasoning. It uses the Knowledge Insulation (KI) training
procedure [73], which trains the entire model end-to-end on
continuous actions and discretized tokens (including actions
discretized via FAST [77]), while using a stop gradient to
prevent the flow-matching action expert from impacting the
rest of the model. Pre-training uses both robot data and visionlanguage co-training data from the web.
π0.6 improves on π0.5 in several ways: (i) The pre-training
dataset is augmented with additional data from multiple robot
platforms. (ii) The base VLM is Gemma 3 [78] 4B model. (iii)
The size of the action expert is increased to 860M parameters.
The model can be written as πθ(at:t+H,
ˆℓ|ot, ℓ), where
ot = [X1
t
, ..., Xn
t
, qt] contains camera images X, the robot’s
configuration q, and ℓ = ℓt+s is the language input consisting
of the overall task prompt ℓt (e.g., “make me an espresso”),
as well as additional language inputs s providing metadata
that further modulates how the task is performed. The model
produces action chunks at:t+H, which consists of joint angles
and gripper commands at 50 Hz, using a separate “action
expert” — a dedicated set of weights (860M parameters)
that are trained with flow matching specifically for action
generation, but can attend to the activations in the rest of the
model. The model also produces tokenized discrete outputs ˆℓ,
which includes a textual representation of the next predicted
sub-task (such as “pick up the coffee cup”) used for highlevel decision-making. Since the actions are generated after ˆℓ,
action generation is effectively conditioned on this predicted
sub-task, providing high-level guidance. At inference time, the
sub-task prediction runs at a lower frequency than action generation. During training, the model also predicts a tokenized
representation of the action chunk at:t+H, using the FAST
tokenizer [77], as part of the KI recipe [73]. We denote these
discretized actions a
ℓ
t:t+H. The action expert does not receive
these as input, such that discrete and continuous actions are
predicted independently. This results in the final training loglikelihood log πθ(at:t+H, aℓ
t:t+H,
ˆℓ|ot, ℓ). Since we predict ˆℓ
first, we can factorize this log-likelihood according to:
log πθ

at:t+H, aℓ
t:t+H,
ˆℓ|ot, ℓ
= log πθ

ˆℓ|ot, ℓ
+ log πθ

a
ℓ
t:t+H|ot, ℓ, ˆℓ

+ log πθ

at:t+H|ot, ℓ, ˆℓ

.
B. From π0.6 to π
∗
0.6 with advantage conditioning
To incorporate information about the advantage into the
policy, we expand the model inputs to contain an additional
improvement indicator as an additional text input, inputting
“Advantage: positive” when It = True, and “Advantage:
negative” otherwise. The VLA model is otherwise the same
as described in Section V-A. The advantage indicator appears
in the training sequence after ˆℓ but before the (discretized and
continuous) actions, such that only the action log-likelihoods
are affected. The continuous part of the log-likelihood cannot
be evaluated exactly, and instead is trained via the flow matching loss [79]. It is possible to draw a close parallel between
flow matching and diffusion (under some assumptions), and
the latter in turn can be interpreted as a lower bound on the
log-likelihood [80], so we can roughly motivate the sum of the
log-likelihood of the discrete actions and the flow matching
loss on the continuous actions as a lower bound on the overall
action likelihood:
log πθ(at:t+H, aℓ
t:t+H|It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ) ≥
Eη,ωh
log pθ(a
ℓ
t:t+H|It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)−
αη



ω − at:t+H − fθ(a
η,ω
t:t+H, It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)



2 i
, (4)
with a
η,ω
t:t+H = ηat:t+H + (1 − η)ω, ω ∼ N (0, I) denoting
the noised action, where η ∈ [0, 1] is the flow matching time
index and fθ denotes the continuous outputs of the diffusion
expert. αη is a loss weighting term (which can optionally
be noise dependent). Full details for the loss are provided in
Appendix C.
During training, we randomly omit the indicator It instead
of tuning the loss multiplier α to allow us to either directly
sample from the policy with It = True (which corresponds to
setting β = 1 in Equation (2)), or to use both a conditional
and unconditional model to implement classifier-free guidance
(CFG), which enables inference with β > 1. See Appendix E
for details.
C. Reward definition and value function training
Since our aim is to develop a general and broadly applicable
method for training VLAs from experience, we use a general
sparse reward definition that can be applied to essentially any
task. For each episode, we obtain a label indicating whether
that episode was successful. We derive the reward 
this episode-level success label such that the value function
corresponds to the (negative) number of steps until successful
completion of the episode. This is equivalent to the following
reward function, where T corresponds to the last step in the
episode, and Cfail is a large constant that is chosen so as to
ensure that failed episodes have low values:
rt =



0 if t = T and success
−Cfail if t = T and failure
−1 otherwise.
(5)
With this reward function, we train the value function to
predict the (negative of the) number of remaining steps until
success for successful episodes, and a large negative value for
failed episodes. In practice, we normalize the values predicted
to be between (−1, 0). Since we train on diverse tasks that
have very different typical lengths, we normalize the values
per task based on the maximum episode length of the task.
The value function takes as input the same language inputs
as the π
∗
0.6 VLA, and uses the same architecture design, with a
smaller 670M parameter VLM backbone that is also initialized
from Gemma 3 (see Figure 3). To prevent overfitting, we also
co-train the value function on a small mixture of multi-modal
web data. Figure 4 show visualizations of the value function
on some examples of successful and failure episodes, with
additional visualizations in Figure 13 in Appendix B.
D. Pre-training, data collection, and learning from experience
The data mixture used in the pre-training phase of our
model largely follows the recipe used by π0.5 [5], with visionlanguage data from the web, prediction of subtasks ˆℓ, and
prediction of low-level actions on a variety of tasks from
many different robots. We note that, after pre-training, π
∗
0.6
can perform many more tasks than the ones used in evaluation
in Section VI. During pre-training, we first train the value
function on the same dataset, predicting (the negative of) the
number of steps to successful completion of each task. Then
we estimate the per-task improvement threshold, ϵℓ, used in
determining the advantage-based improvement indicator It.
We set ϵℓ to the 30% percentile of values predicted by the
value function for the task ℓ. We then run the value function
on-the-fly during VLA training to estimate Aπref(ot, at, ℓ) for
each example, and then use it to compute It based on ϵℓ. It
is included as an input to π
∗
0.6
as described in Section V-A.
As we use a relatively small VLM backbone (670M) for
the value function, on-the-fly inference of the value function
incurs minimal additional cost during VLA training.
After pre-training we start a policy improvement loop for
the target task. We first finetune π
∗
0.6 with demonstration data
Dℓ for the target task ℓ. We fix the indicator It to True in this
stage, which we found to lead to slightly better results, such
that this stage corresponds to supervised finetuning (SFT).
This results in the initial policy π
0
ℓ
, which is then used
to collect additional data that is added to Dℓ. While some
of the episodes are collected fully autonomously, some are
monitored by an expert teleoperator who can intervene to
Fig. 5: The robot setup used in our experiments. π
∗
0.6
is trained on data
from many different robots in pre-training. For the iterative improvement
experiments, we use a static bimanual system with two 6 DoF arms with
parallel jaw grippers. The arms are controlled at 50 Hz with joint positions.
Observations consist of joint and gripper positions, as well as images from
three cameras: a base camera mounted between the arms, and a wrist-mounted
camera on each arm. The setup can be mounted flexibly, e.g. on a table.
provide corrections. These corrections can show the policy
how to avoid catastrophic failures or how to recover from
mistakes. Note, however, that the corrections alone are unlikely
to fix all issues: intervening during autonomous execution is
a disruptive event, and even expert human operators cannot
guarantee a consistent quality of interventions nor improve
subtle aspects of the behavior, such as overall speed. Thus,
the corrections serve more to fix large mistakes and overcome
challenges with exploration, and do not by themselves provide
for optimal supervision, in contrast to theory [7]. Recall from
Section IV-B that we force It = True for all corrections,
but otherwise the entire episode (both the autonomous parts
and the corrections) are optionally added to the dataset Dℓ
regardless of whether or not a correction was provided.
After data collection, we finetune the value function on
all of the data collected for the task so far, and then use it
to finetune the policy with updated indicators It, using the
same procedure as in pre-training. Both the value function and
policy are finetuned from the pre-trained checkpoint, rather
than the policy and value function from the last iteration.
We found this to be useful for avoiding drift over multiple
iterations, though it may be possible to also obtain good results
by consistently finetuning from the last model.
We can repeat this process for several iterations as needed,
though in practice we found that even one iteration often leads
to significantly improved results.
VI. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
In our experimental evaluation, we use RECAP to train the
π0.6 model on a set of realistic tasks: making espresso drinks,
folding diverse laundry, and assembling boxes. Each task requires multiple steps, ranging from 5 to 15 minutes in duration,
complex manipulation behaviors (constrained forceful manipulation, pouring liquids, manipulating cloth and cardboard, etc.),
and fast execution to provide for high throughput. We illustrate
the robotic platform used in our experiments in Figure 5. We
Fig. 6: Illustrations of the tasks used in our experiments. Tasks include three different laundry variants, assembling boxes, and making coffee drinks with
an espresso machine.
give details on the tasks and baselines below, followed by
quantitative experiments.
A. Evaluation Tasks
Our quantitative evaluations and comparisons use three
broad task categories each with individual task variants: laundry folding, coffee making, and box assembly. We summarize
the tasks below, with illustrations in Figure 6:
Laundry (t-shirts and shorts). This is the standard laundry
folding task in the π0 paper [81]. This task entails retrieving
either a T-shirt or shorts from a basket with variable initial
conditions, flattening, folding. Success requires one clothing
item to be folded and stacked in the top right corner of the
table within 200 seconds.
Laundry (diverse items). The diverse laundry task requires
folding a much larger variety of items, considering 11 item
types, including towels, button-up shirts, sweaters, jeans, Tshirts, shorts, polos, skirts, long sleeve shirts, socks, and
underwear. To obtain a low-variance metric in our experiments,
we measure performance on one of the most challenging
items – the button-up shirt. However, the policy is trained
on all items, and the accompanying videos show results for
a variety of clothing. Success is defined as having the target
item correctly folded and placed on a stack on the table within
500 seconds.
Laundry (targeted failure removal). The final version of
the laundry folding task considers a much more structured
setup for use in our ablation experiments, in which the task
involves folding a single orange T-shirt from a fixed flattened
initial condition. We place the highest emphasis on success,
with a strict success criteria that requires the shirt to be folded
correctly with the collar always facing up within 200 seconds.
We found this task to be useful for assessing whether RECAP
can remove specific undesirable behaviors via RL (in this case,
placing the collar facing down rather than up).
Cafe (double shot espresso). We evaluate our policies on
the challenging long-horizon task of making coffee with a
commercial espresso machine. While our cafe policy can make
many drinks (lattes, iced Americanos, espresso, etc), and even
clean the espresso machine with a towel, for the purposes of
our quantitative experiments we focus on the double espresso
shot task. This entails picking up the portafilter, placing it
on the grinder and grinding beans into it, tamping the ground
coffee beans, locking the portafilter into the espresso machine,
bringing over the cup, extracting the full shot of espresso, then
serving. Success is measured as completing all steps within
200 seconds without critical mistakes (such as dropping the
portafilter or spilling the coffee).
Box assembly. We evaluate our policy on the problem of
assembling packaging boxes in a real-world factory deployment scenario. Box assembly involves folding a cardboard box
starting from a flattened cardboard sheet, attaching a label onto
it and placing the box in the appropriate spot in a crate. For
the purposes of the quantitative experiments, we focus on all
portions of the task and count overall success as going from
a flattened to an assembled and stacked box in under 600
seconds.
B. Comparisons and Ablations
We compare RECAP to several baselines:
Pre-trained π0.5 [5]. This baseline does not use RL and does
not leverage RECAP.
Pre-trained π0.6 [6]. It does not include the advantage indicator It, and is pre-trained with supervised learning.
RL pre-trained π
∗
0.6
. It is pre-trained with RL alongside
its value function, and includes an advantage indicator It as
described in Section V-D.
π
∗
0.6 offline RL + SFT. This model is trained by finetuning the
base π
∗
0.6 pre-trained checkpoint with demonstration data for
the target task. We refer to this finetuning as “SFT” because
the advantage values are fixed to True for all demonstrations.
We find that this combination of the offline RL pre-trained
π
∗
0.6 model with high-quality SFT outperforms standard SFT
Fig. 7: Throughput. We show the number of successfully completed tasks per hour for laundry (simple and diverse), espresso making, and box assembly.
Error bars show standard error. This metric measures both success and speed. In all cases, RECAP applied to π
∗
0.6
(Ours) leads to substantial improvements
in throughput. RECAP has the highest impact on throughput for diverse laundry and espresso tasks, more than doubling successful completions per hour.
Fig. 8: Success rates. We show the absolute success rates with standard error. Each stage of RECAP improves performance across the tasks, with the challenging
diverse laundry and espresso tasks seeing the largest gains success rate, corresponding to more than 2× reduction in failure rates. For the box assembly task
we show the success rate for the different subtasks. RECAP leads to the most consistent (and highest) success across all subtasks.
(without offline RL pre-training), and provides a good starting
point for RL with on-robot data.
π
∗
0.6
(ours). This is the final model trained with RECAP on
the target task, including both autonomous rollouts and expert
corrections. By default we evaluate with β = 1. In some
experiments we also consider inference with CFG, which
corresponds to β > 1.
We also consider two alternative policy extraction methods
in the literature as comparisons for our advantage-conditioned
approach, both of which use the same on-robot data as RECAP
but a different policy learning method:
AWR. Starting from the same pre-trained model π0.6 (without advantage conditioning) we fine-tune using advantage
weighted regression [68], based on advantages extracted from
our value-function.
PPO. We implement a variant of DPPO/FPO [23, 82] in which
we calculate likelihoods based on the single step diffusion objective and use an alternative definition of the PPO constraint
following SPO [83] (see Appendix D for details).
C. Quantitative results
We use two metrics in our evaluation: throughput and
success rate. Throughput measures the number of successful
task executions per hour, thus capturing both speed and
success rate into one practically relevant quantity. Success
rate measures the proportion of episodes that succeed, and
is derived from human-provided annotations. Raters are asked
to judge the episode with respect to multiple quality metrics,
and we aggregate these quality indicators into a success label.
1) How much does RECAP improve the policy?: To answer
this question, we present the main quantitative results in
Figures 7 and 8. Across all tasks, the final π
∗
0.6
significantly
improves over the base (supervised) π0.6 model, the RL pretrained π
∗
0.6 model, and the offline RL + SFT π
∗
0.6 model.
Throughput more than doubles on the diverse laundry folding
and espresso tasks from including on-robot data (the improvement from offline RL + SFT to the final π
∗
0.6 model), and the
rate of failure reduces by about a factor of two. On the easier
laundry task (t-shirts and shorts), the success rate is already
close to the maximum after the SFT phase, but throughput still
increases by a significant margin with the final model.
On all of the tasks except diverse laundry, the success rate
of the final π
∗
0.6 model is in the 90%+ range. This makes it
feasible to use in practical settings, such as making espresso
drinks at the office or assembling boxes in a factory, as
shown in the accompanying videos. For the box assembly
task, Figure 8 (right) contains a breakdown of the task success
over its four stages: picking up a box sheet, building the box,
labeling the box, and placing it at an available spot in a crate.
π
∗
0.6
attains higher success rates for all of the stages compared
to the other models. The majority of failures on these stages
happen because the policy runs out of time. The accompanying
videos present time lapses where each of the tasks is run for
multiple hours.
Fig. 9: Improvement in throughput over multiple iterations. Both tasks
improve significantly in throughput as we take more iterations of RECAP,
with box assembling first dropping and then improving significantly.
Fig. 10: Improvement in success rate over multiple iterations. The laundry
task quickly reaches the maximum success rate (but continues to improve in
throughput as shown in Figure 9, while box assembly continues to improve.
2) How much does RECAP improve π
∗
0.6 over multiple iterations?: We next elucidate how training with RECAP improves
policies through multiple iterations of data collection and training. We study the T-shirt and shorts folding task and the box
assembly task. For the T-shirt folding task, only data collected
with autonomous evaluation (without human corrections) is
used to perform policy improvement over two iterations, in
order to evaluate how well our method can improve the policy
via RL alone. We collect 300 trajectories on four robots in each
iteration. Box assembly uses both autonomous trials and trials
with expert teleoperator interventions, with 600 autonomous
trials and 360 trials with interventions in each iteration.
We plot the throughput over iterations in Figure 9, comparing two iterations of RECAP, denoted by i = 1, i = 2
respectively. The final iteration, labeled (Ours), corresponds
to the overall best result for these tasks presented in the
previous section. We also compare the initial data collection
policy, which uses the offline RL pre-trained π
∗
0.6 model with
SFT finetuning. For both tasks, π
∗
0.6
improves over the two
iterations. In the laundry task we can see steady improvement
yielding an overall 50% improvement in throughput. For the
long-horizon box assembly task, more data is needed to yield
a significant improvement, but after the second iteration we
see a 2× improvement in throughput.
We also show the success rate over the iterations in Figure 10. For the laundry task, the first iteration already raises
the success rate to over 90%, while the second iteration mainly
Fig. 11: Comparison of different policy extraction methods. RECAP applied
to π
∗
0.6
achieves by far the highest throughput for the laundry task compared
to AWR and PPO.
Fig. 12: Failure mode removal. Here we apply RECAP on a variant of
the laundry task with one item but a very strict success criteria. RECAP is
particularly effective at removing failure modes that would be considered non
successful under the strict criteria. Therefore, our method can also be used to
alter a policy’s behavior with relatively little data effectively.
improves throughput. For the box assembly task, we see clear
improvements in the success rate over both iterations. While
there are still some failures (especially when placing the box
on the stack at the end), the final policy achieves a success
rate of about 90% both for folding the box and labeling it in
the allocated time limit of 600 seconds.
3) How does the advantage-conditioned policy extraction
method in RECAP compare to other methods?: We compare
our advantage conditioned policy extraction method from
Section IV-B to other methods in the literature: AWR and
PPO. We use the T-shirts and Shorts task for this comparison.
To ensure a controlled comparison, we use the same data for
these comparisons that was used to train our final model. This
provides a slight advantage to the baselines, since they have
access to better data that was collected while running RECAP.
The results are shown in Figure 11. While both AWR and
PPO can attain reasonable results, they both fall far short of
our method, and struggle to improve over the offline RL +
SFT π
∗
0.6 model. For PPO, we had to use a small trust-region
constraint (η = 0.01) to stabilize training in this off-policy
setting, and while this makes training stable, the method does
not achieve good performance. AWR can achieve a reasonable
success rate, but leads to much slower polies with lower
throughput.
4) Can RECAP significantly alter policy behavior with
relatively little data and remove a failure mode?: While the
preceding experiments have focused on holistic end-to-end
evaluations of policy performance, we can also zoom in on
a specific failure mode to examine whether RL training with
RECAP can remove a specific mistake from the policy. To
answer this question, we use a version of the laundry task with
a strict success criterion, which requires the policy to fold a
t-shirt with the collar centered and facing up. Each episode is
initialized with a specific adversarial condition in which the
shirt is placed flat on the table in such a way that the baseline
offline RL + SFT policy often fails to fold it correctly. As
shown in Figure 12, applying RECAP in this setting for two
iterations (collecting 600 trajectories in each iteration) results
in a policy that succeeds 97% of the time, and with high speed.
Thus we conclude that RECAP can be effective at removing
specific failure modes, even when learning entirely via RL
without any intervention data or additional demonstrations.
VII. DISCUSSION AND FUTURE WORK
Training policies that can achieve the same robustness,
speed, and fluency on real-world tasks as people presents a
major challenge in robotic learning. In this paper, we discussed
how learning from experience, through a combination of
DAgger-style coaching and RL, can begin to address this challenge. We describe RECAP, a method for training VLAs with
autonomous trials, reward feedback, and human interventions,
and present results for a model trained with RECAP, π
∗
0.6
,
on a set of realistic tasks: making espresso drinks, folding
diverse laundry, and assembling boxes. At the core of RECAP
is an RL method that is well-suited for scalable training
of VLA policies, using advantage conditioning for policy
extraction with value functions. The data for this RL method
is collected with a combination of autonomous rollouts and
human interventions, correcting mistakes with interventions
while finetuning the details of the behavior on autonomous
data. Our experiments show that RECAP can improve both the
success rate and throughput of the VLA, more than doubling
the throughput on some of the harder tasks, and decreasing
the number of failures by roughly 2×.
There are several directions for improvement with RECAP.
First, our system is not fully autonomous: it relies on human
labeling and effort for reward feedback, interventions, and
episode resets. A number of prior works have explored ways
to automate these components [84, 85], and VLAs offer
new ways to provide for more automated data collection, for
example by using high-level policies [86] to reason through
resetting the scene. Second, our system is relatively na¨ıve in
how it approaches exploration: exploration is largely greedy,
relying on stochasticity in the policy and human interventions
to explore new solutions. This is reasonable when the initial
imitation learning policy already takes reasonable actions, but
there is plenty of room for improvement with more sophisticated exploration methods. Lastly, RECAP performs iterated
“offline” updates (i.e., it collects a batch of data, retrains the
model, and repeats), rather than running a fully online RL loop
where the policy and value function are updated in real time
as data is collected. We make this decision out of convenience,
but extending our approach into a fully concurrent online RL
framework is a promising direction for future work.
More broadly, training VLAs with RL is perhaps the most
direct path to get to performance levels that are adequate for
real-world use cases. RL with VLAs presents a number of
challenges, from the difficulty of large-scale RL training of
high capacity models to sample complexity, autonomy, and
delayed feedback. While existing RL frameworks designed for
smaller-scale systems or “virtual” domains such as LLMs can
provide a good starting point, more research will be needed
to make RL a practical tool for VLA training. We hope that
our work represents a meaningful step in this direction.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We thank our robot operators for data collection, evaluations, logistics, and video recording, and our technicians for
robot maintenance and repair. See Appendix A for a full
contributions statement.
REFERENCES
[1] Richard S Sutton and Andrew G Barto. Reinforcement
learning: An introduction. MIT press, 2018. 1
[2] Sascha Lange, Thomas Gabel, and Martin A. Riedmiller. Batch reinforcement learning. In Marco A.
Wiering and Martijn van Otterlo, editors, Reinforcement Learning, volume 12 of Adaptation, Learning,
and Optimization, pages 45–73. Springer, 2012. doi:
10.1007/978-3-642-27645-3\ 2. 2, 4
[3] Sergey Levine, Aviral Kumar, George Tucker, and Justin
Fu. Offline reinforcement learning: Tutorial, review,
and perspectives on open problems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.01643, 2020. 2, 4
[4] Kevin Frans, Seohong Park, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey
Levine. Diffusion guidance is a controllable policy
improvement operator. arXiv preprint, arXiv:2505.23458,
2025. 2, 3, 4, 5, 17
[5] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James Darpinian, Karan
Dhabalia, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Robert
Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Manuel Y Galliker,
et al. π0.5: a vision-language-action model with openworld generalization. In 9th Annual Conference on Robot
Learning, 2025. 2, 3, 5, 7, 8
[6] Physical Intelligence Team. π0.6 model card. 2025. 2,
5, 6, 8
[7] Stephane Ross, Geoffrey Gordon, and Drew Bagnell. A ´
reduction of imitation learning and structured prediction
to no-regret online learning. In AISTATS, pages 627–635,
2011. 2, 7
[8] Michael Laskey, Jonathan Lee, Roy Fox, Anca Dragan,
and Ken Goldberg. Shiv: Reducing supervisor burden
in dagger using support vectors for efficient learning
from demonstrations in high dimensional state spaces. In
Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 462–469,
2016. doi: 10.1109/ICRA.2016.7487175. 2
[9] Michael Laskey, Jonathan Lee, Roy Fox, Anca D. Dragan, and Ken Goldberg. Dart: Noise injection for robust
imitation learning. In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), volume 70 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
pages 1989–1998. PMLR, 2017.
[10] Eric Jang, Alex Irpan, Mohi Khansari, Daniel Kappler,
Frederik Ebert, Corey Lynch, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Bc-z: Zero-shot task generalization with robotic
imitation learning. In Conference on Robot Learning,
pages 991–1002. PMLR, 2022. 2
[11] Zheyuan Hu, Robyn Wu, Naveen Enock, Jasmine Li,
Riya Kadakia, Zackory Erickson, and Aviral Kumar. Rac:
Robot learning for long-horizon tasks by scaling recovery
and correction. arXiv preprint, arXiv:2509.07953, 2025.
2
[12] Michael Kelly, Chelsea Sidrane, Katherine DriggsCampbell, and Mykel J Kochenderfer. Hg-dagger: Interactive imitation learning with human experts. In ICRA,
2019. 2
[13] Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Trevor Darrell, and Pieter
Abbeel. End-to-end training of deep visuomotor policies.
The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17(1):1334–
1373, 2016. 2
[14] Dmitry Kalashnikov, Alex Irpan, Peter Pastor, Julian
Ibarz, Alexander Herzog, Eric Jang, Deirdre Quillen,
Ethan Holly, Mrinal Kalakrishnan, Vincent Vanhoucke,
et al. QT-Opt: Scalable deep reinforcement learning
for vision-based robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.10293, 2018.
[15] Ajay Mandlekar, Fabio Ramos, Byron Boots, Li FeiFei, Animesh Garg, and Dieter Fox. Iris: Implicit
reinforcement without interaction at scale for learning
control from offline robot manipulation data. ICRA,
2020.
[16] Archit Sharma, M. Ahmed Ahmed Rehaan Ahmad,
and Chelsea Finn. Self-improving robots: End-to-end
autonomous visuomotor reinforcement learning. In
Proceedings of the 7th Conference on Robot Learning
(CoRL), volume 229, pages 3292–3308. PMLR, 2023.
[17] Russell Mendonca, Shikhar Bahl, and Deepak Pathak.
Alan: Autonomously exploring robotic agents in the
real world. In Proceedings of the 2023 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pages 3044–3050, 2023. doi: 10.1109/ICRA48891.2023.
10013321.
[18] Russell Mendonca, Emmanuel Panov, Bernadette Bucher,
Jiuguang Wang, and Deepak Pathak. Continuously
improving mobile manipulation with autonomous realworld rl. In Proceedings of the 8th Conference on Robot
Learning (CoRL), pages 5204–5219, 2024.
[19] Jianlan Luo, Zheyuan Hu, Charles Xu, You Liang Tan,
Jacob Berg, Archit Sharma, Stefan Schaal, Chelsea Finn,
Abhishek Gupta, and Sergey Levine. Serl: A software
suite for sample-efficient robotic reinforcement learning,
2024.
[20] Lars Ankile, Zhenyu Jiang, Rocky Duan, Guanya Shi,
Pieter Abbeel, and Anusha Nagabandi. Residual offpolicy rl for finetuning behavior cloning policies. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2509.19301, 2025.
[21] Thomas Lampe, Abbas Abdolmaleki, Sarah Bechtle,
Sandy H. Huang, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Michael
Bloesch, Oliver Groth, Roland Hafner, Tim Hertweck,
Michael Neunert, Markus Wulfmeier, Jingwei Zhang,
Francesco Nori, Nicolas Heess, and Martin Riedmiller.
Mastering stacking of diverse shapes with large-scale
iterative reinforcement learning on real robots. In 2024
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 7772–7779, 2024. doi: 10.1109/
ICRA57147.2024.10610297. 2
[22] Perry Dong, Suvir Mirchandani, Dorsa Sadigh, and
Chelsea Finn. What matters for batch online reinforcement learning in robotics? arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2505.08078, 2025. 2
[23] Allen Z. Ren, Justin Lidard, Lars Lien Ankile, Anthony
Simeonov, Pulkit Agrawal, Anirudha Majumdar, Benjamin Burchfiel, Hongkai Dai, and Max Simchowitz.
Diffusion Policy Policy Optimization. In Proceedings
of the 2025 International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2025. 9, 17
[24] Kun Lei, Huanyu Li, Dongjie Yu, Zhenyu Wei, Lingxiao
Guo, Zhennan Jiang, Ziyu Wang, Shiyu Liang, and
Huazhe Xu. Rl-100: Performant robotic manipulation
with real-world reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2510.14830, 2025. 2
[25] Dmitry Kalashnkov, Jake Varley, Yevgen Chebotar, Ben
Swanson, Rico Jonschkowski, Chelsea Finn, Sergey
Levine, and Karol Hausman. Mt-opt: Continuous multitask robotic reinforcement learning at scale. arXiv, 2021.
2
[26] Abhishek Gupta, Justin Yu, Tony Z. Zhao, Vikash Kumar,
Aaron Rovinsky, Kelvin Xu, Thomas Devlin, and Sergey
Levine. Reset-free reinforcement learning via multitask learning: Learning dexterous manipulation behaviors
without human intervention. In Proceedings of the
2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 6664–6671, 2021. 2
[27] Konstantinos Bousmalis, Giulia Vezzani, Dushyant Rao,
Coline Devin, Alex X Lee, Maria Bauza, Todor Davchev,
Yuxiang Zhou, Agrim Gupta, Akhil Raju, et al. Robocat:
A self-improving foundation agent for robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.11706, 2023. 2
[28] Aviral Kumar, Anikait Singh, Frederik Ebert, Mitsuhiko
Nakamoto, Yanlai Yang, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey
Levine. Pre-training for robots: Offline reinforcement
learning enables learning new tasks from a handful of
trials. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems
(RSS), 2023. doi: 10.15607/RSS.2023.XIX.019.
[29] Jingyun Yang, Max Sobol Mark, Brandon Vu, Archit
Sharma, Jeannette Bohg, and Chelsea Finn. Robot
fine-tuning made easy: Pre-training rewards and policies
for autonomous real-world reinforcement learning. In
Proceedings of the 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2024. doi:
10.1109/ICRA57147.2024.10610421. 2
[30] Shuhan Tan, Kairan Dou, Yue Zhao, and
Philipp Krahenb ¨ uhl. Interactive post-training for ¨
vision-language-action models. arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2505.17016, 2025. 2
[31] Guanxing Lu, Wenkai Guo, Chubin Zhang, Yuheng
Zhou, Haonan Jiang, Zifeng Gao, Yansong Tang, and Ziwei Wang. Vla-rl: Towards masterful and general robotic
manipulation with scalable reinforcement learning. arXiv
preprint, arXiv:2505.18719, 2025.
[32] Jijia Liu, Feng Gao, Bingwen Wei, Xinlei Chen, Qingmin
Liao, Yi Wu, Chao Yu, and Yu Wang. What can rl bring
to vla generalization? an empirical study. arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2505.19789, 2025.
[33] Kang Chen, Zhihao Liu, Tonghe Zhang, Zhen Guo,
Si Xu, Hao Lin, Hongzhi Zang, Quanlu Zhang,
Zhaofei Yu, Guoliang Fan, Tiejun Huang, Yu Wang,
and Chao Yu. πrl: Online rl fine-tuning for flowbased vision-language-action models. arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2510.25889, 2025.
[34] Haozhan Li, Yuxin Zuo, Jiale Yu, Yuhao Zhang, Zhaohui Yang, Kaiyan Zhang, Xuekai Zhu, Yuchen Zhang,
Tianxing Chen, Ganqu Cui, Dehui Wang, Dingxiang Luo,
Yuchen Fan, Youbang Sun, Jia Zeng, Jiangmiao Pang,
Shanghang Zhang, Yu Wang, Yao Mu, Bowen Zhou, and
Ning Ding. Simplevla-rl: Scaling vla training via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint, arXiv:2509.09674,
2025. 2
[35] Yanjiang Guo, Jianke Zhang, Xiaoyu Chen, Xiang Ji,
Yen-Jen Wang, Yucheng Hu, and Jianyu Chen. Improving
vision-language-action model with online reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint, arXiv:2501.16664, 2025. 2
[36] Wenli Xiao, Haotian Lin, Andy Peng, Haoru Xue, Tairan
He, Yuqi Xie, Fengyuan Hu, Jimmy Wu, Zhengyi Luo,
Linxi ”Jim” Fan, Guanya Shi, and Yuke Zhu. Selfimproving vision-language-action models with data generation via residual rl, 2025. 2
[37] Yuhui Chen, Shuai Tian, Shugao Liu, Yingting Zhou,
Haoran Li, and Dongbin Zhao. Conrft: A reinforced
fine-tuning method for vla models via consistency policy.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.05450, 2025. 2
[38] Max Sobol Mark, Tian Gao, Georgia Gabriela Sampaio,
Mohan Kumar Srirama, Archit Sharma, Chelsea Finn,
and Aviral Kumar. Policy-agnostic rl: Offline rl and
online rl fine-tuning of any class and backbone. arXiv
preprint, arXiv:2412.06685, 2024. 2
[39] Mitsuhiko Nakamoto, Oier Mees, Aviral Kumar, and
Sergey Levine. Steering your generalists: Improving
robotic foundation models via value guidance. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 4996–5013. PMLR,
2025.
[40] Yang Zhang, Chenwei Wang, Ouyang Lu, Yuan Zhao,
Yunfei Ge, Zhenglong Sun, Xiu Li, Chi Zhang, Chenjia
Bai, and Xuelong Li. Align-then-steer: Adapting the
vision-language action models through unified latent
guidance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.02055, 2025. 2
[41] Andrew Wagenmaker, Mitsuhiko Nakamoto, Yunchu
Zhang, Seohong Park, Waleed Yagoub, Anusha Nagabandi, Abhishek Gupta, and Sergey Levine. Steering your
diffusion policy with latent space reinforcement learning.
In Proceedings of the 9th Conference on Robot Learning
(CoRL), 2025. 2
[42] Charles Xu, Qiyang Li, Jianlan Luo, and Sergey Levine.
Rldg: Robotic generalist policy distillation via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.09858, 2024.
2
[43] Dongchi Huang, Zhirui Fang, Tianle Zhang, Yihang
Li, Lin Zhao, and Chunhe Xia. Co-rft: Efficient finetuning of vision-language-action models through chunked offline reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2508.02219, 2025. 3
[44] Zijian Zhang, Kaiyuan Zheng, Zhaorun Chen, Joel
Jang, Yi Li, Siwei Han, Chaoqi Wang, Mingyu Ding,
Dieter Fox, and Huaxiu Yao. Grape: Generalizing
robot policy via preference alignment. arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2411.19309, 2024. 3
[45] Shaopeng Zhai, Qi Zhang, Tianyi Zhang, Fuxian Huang,
Haoran Zhang, Ming Zhou, Shengzhe Zhang, Litao Liu,
Sixu Lin, and Jiangmiao Pang. A vision-languageaction-critic model for robotic real-world reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint, arXiv:2509.15937, 2025. 3
[46] Seyed Kamyar Ghasemipour, Ayzaan Wahid, Jonathan
Tompson, Pannag Sanketi, and Igor Mordatch. Selfimproving embodied foundation models. arXiv preprint,
arXiv:2509.15155, 2025. 3
[47] Jurgen Schmidhuber. Reinforcement learning upside ¨
down: Don’t predict rewards — just map them to actions.
arXiv preprint, arXiv:1912.02875, 2019. 3, 4
[48] Aviral Kumar, Xue Bin Peng, and Sergey Levine.
Reward-conditioned policies. CoRR, abs/1912.13465,
2019. 4
[49] Lili Chen, Kevin Lu, Aravind Rajeswaran, Kimin Lee,
Aditya Grover, Michael Laskin, Pieter Abbeel, Aravind
Srinivas, and Igor Mordatch. Decision transformer: Reinforcement learning via sequence modeling. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) 34,
2021.
[50] David Brandfonbrener, Alberto Bietti, Jacob Buckman,
Romain Laroche, and Joan Bruna. When does returnconditioned supervised learning work for offline reinforcement learning? In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS) 35, 2022. 4
[51] Scott Emmons, Benjamin Eysenbach, Ilya Kostrikov, and
Sergey Levine. Rvs: What is essential for offline rl
via supervised learning? In Proceedings of the 10th
International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR), 2022.
[52] Hiroki Furuta, Yusuke Matsuo, and Shixiang Shane Gu.
Generalized decision transformer for offline hindsight
information matching. In Proceedings of the 10th
International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR), 2022.
[53] Taku Yamagata, Ahmed Khalil, and Raul Santos- ´
Rodr´ıguez. Q-learning decision transformer: Leveraging
dynamic programming for conditional sequence modelling in offline rl. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), volume
202 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages
38989–39007. PMLR, 2023.
[54] Qinqing Zheng, Amy Zhang, and Aditya Grover. Online
decision transformer. In Proceedings of the 39th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), volume
162 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages
27042–27059. PMLR, 2022.
[55] Jakub Grudzien Kuba, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine.
Advantage-conditioned diffusion: Offline rl via generalization. 2023.
[56] Yueh-Hua Wu, Xiaolong Wang, and Masashi Hamaya.
Elastic decision transformer. In Proceedings of the 37th
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS), 2023. doi: 10.5555/3666122.3666936. 3
[57] Lin Shao, Toki Migimatsu, Qiang Zhang, Kaiyuan Yang,
and Jeannette Bohg. Concept2robot: Learning manipulation concepts from instructions and human demonstrations. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science & Systems
(RSS), 2020. doi: 10.15607/RSS.2020.XVI.082. 3
[58] Annie S. Chen, Suraj Nair, and Chelsea Finn. Learning generalizable robotic reward functions from “in-thewild” human videos. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science
& Systems (RSS) 2021, 2021.
[59] Suraj Nair, Eric Mitchell, Kevin Chen, Brian Ichter,
Silvio Savarese, and Chelsea Finn. Learning languageconditioned robot behavior from offline data and crowdsourced annotation. In Proceedings of the 5th Conference
on Robot Learning (CoRL), volume 164 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 1303–1315.
PMLR, 2022.
[60] Sumedh A. Sontakke, Jesse Zhang, Sebastien M.R. ´
Arnold, Karl Pertsch, Erdem Bıyık, Dorsa Sadigh,
Chelsea Finn, and Laurent Itti. Roboclip: One demonstration is enough to learn robot policies. In Proceedings
of the 37th Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS), 2023.
[61] Wenhao Yu, Nimrod Gileadi, Chuyuan Fu, Sean Kirmani, Kuang-Huei Lee, Montse Gonzalez Arenas, HaoTien Lewis Chiang, Tom Erez, Leonard Hasenclever,
Jan Humplik, Brian Ichter, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Andy
Zeng, Tingnan Zhang, Nicolas Heess, Dorsa Sadigh, Jie
Tan, Yuval Tassa, and Fei Xia. Language to rewards
for robotic skill synthesis. In Proceedings of the 7th
Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL), volume 229 of
Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 374–
404. PMLR, 2023.
[62] Jiahui Zhang, Yusen Luo, Abrar Anwar, Sumedh Anand
Sontakke, Joseph J. Lim, Jesse Thomason, Erdem Bıyık,
and Jesse Zhang. Rewind: Language-guided rewards
teach robot policies without new demonstrations. In
Proceedings of the 9th Conference on Robot Learning
(CoRL), 2025.
[63] Minttu Alakuijala, Reginald McLean, Isaac Woungang,
Nariman Farsad, Samuel Kaski, Pekka Marttinen, and
Kai Yuan. Video-language critic: Transferable reward
functions for language-conditioned robotics. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2025:1–22, 2025.
3
[64] Yecheng Jason Ma, William Liang, Vaidehi Som, Vikash
Kumar, Amy Zhang, Osbert Bastani, and Dinesh Jayaraman. Liv: Language-image representations and rewards
for robotic control. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2023.
3
[65] Yecheng Jason Ma, Joey Hejna, Chuyuan Fu, Dhruv
Shah, Jacky Liang, Zhuo Xu, Sean Kirmani, Peng Xu,
Danny Driess, Ted Xiao, Osbert Bastani, Dinesh Jayaraman, Wenhao Yu, Tingnan Zhang, Dorsa Sadigh,
and Fei Xia. Vision language models are in-context
value learners. In Proceedings of the 13th International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2025.
3
[66] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec
Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy optimization
algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017. 3,
4, 17
[67] Abbas Abdolmaleki, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Yuval
Tassa, Remi Munos, Nicolas Heess, and Martin Riedmiller. Maximum a posteriori policy optimisation. In
International Conference on Learning Representations,
2018. 3
[68] Xue Bin Peng, Aviral Kumar, Grace Zhang, and Sergey
Levine. Advantage-weighted regression: Simple and
scalable off-policy reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1910.00177, 2019. 4, 9
[69] Peter Dayan and Geoffrey E. Hinton. Using expectationmaximization for reinforcement learning. Neural Computation, 9(2):271–278, 1997. doi: 10.1162/neco.1997.9.
2.271.
[70] Jan Peters, Katharina Mulling, and Yasemin Alt ¨ un. Rel- ¨
ative entropy policy search. In Proceedings of the
Twenty-Fourth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI’10, page 1607–1612. AAAI Press, 2010.
3
[71] Qing Wang, Jiechao Xiong, Lei Han, peng sun, Han
Liu, and Tong Zhang. Exponentially weighted imitation
learning for batched historical data. In S. Bengio, H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, K. Grauman, N. Cesa-Bianchi, and
R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, volume 31, 2018. 3
[72] Marc G Bellemare, Will Dabney, and Remi Munos. ´
A distributional perspective on reinforcement learning.
In International conference on machine learning, pages
449–458. PMLR, 2017. 4
[73] Danny Driess, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Brian Ichter,
Lili Yu, Adrian Li-Bell, Karl Pertsch, Allen Z Ren,
Homer Walke, Quan Vuong, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, et al.
Knowledge insulating vision-language-action models:
Train fast, run fast, generalize better. In Proceedings of
the 37th Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS), 2025. 4, 6
[74] Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Pieter Abbeel, and
Sergey Levine. Soft actor-critic: Off-policy maximum
entropy deep reinforcement learning with a stochastic
actor. ICML, 2018. 4
[75] Ziyu Wang, Alexander Novikov, Konrad Zolna, Josh S
Merel, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Scott E Reed, Bobak
Shahriari, Noah Siegel, Caglar Gulcehre, Nicolas Heess,
and Nando de Freitas. Critic regularized regression. In
H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M.F. Balcan,
and H. Lin, editors, Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, volume 33, pages 7768–7778, 2020.
4
[76] Ilya Kostrikov, Ashvin Nair, and Sergey Levine. Offline
reinforcement learning with implicit q-learning. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
4
[77] Karl Pertsch, Kyle Stachowicz, Brian Ichter, Danny
Driess, Suraj Nair, Quan Vuong, Oier Mees, Chelsea
Finn, and Sergey Levine. FAST: Efficient action tokenization for vision-language-action models. Robotics:
Science and Systems, 2025. 6
[78] Gemma Team, Aishwarya Kamath, Johan Ferret, Shreya
Pathak, Nino Vieillard, Ramona Merhej, Sarah Perrin, Tatiana Matejovicova, Alexandre Rame, Morgane ´
Riviere, Louis Rouillard, Thomas Mesnard, Geoffrey `
Cideron, Jean bastien Grill, Sabela Ramos, Edouard
Yvinec, Michelle Casbon, Etienne Pot, Ivo Penchev,
Gael Liu, Francesco Visin, Kathleen Kenealy, Lucas ¨
Beyer, Xiaohai Zhai, Anton Tsitsulin, Robert BusaFekete, Alex Feng, Noveen Sachdeva, Benjamin Coleman, Yi Gao, Basil Mustafa, Iain Barr, Emilio Parisotto,
David Tian, Matan Eyal, Colin Cherry, Jan-Thorsten
Peter, Danila Sinopalnikov, Surya Bhupatiraju, Rishabh
Agarwal, Mehran Kazemi, Dan Malkin, Ravin Kumar, David Vilar, Idan Brusilovsky, Jiaming Luo, Andreas Steiner, Abe Friesen, Abhanshu Sharma, Abheesht
Sharma, Adi Mayrav Gilady, Adrian Goedeckemeyer,
Alaa Saade, Alex Feng, Alexander Kolesnikov, Alexei
Bendebury, Alvin Abdagic, Amit Vadi, Andras Gy ´ orgy, ¨
Andre Susano Pinto, Anil Das, Ankur Bapna, An- ´
toine Miech, Antoine Yang, Antonia Paterson, Ashish
Shenoy, Ayan Chakrabarti, Bilal Piot, Bo Wu, Bobak
Shahriari, Bryce Petrini, Charlie Chen, Charline Le
Lan, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, CJ Carey, Cormac
Brick, Daniel Deutsch, Danielle Eisenbud, Dee Cattle,
Derek Cheng, Dimitris Paparas, Divyashree Shivakumar
Sreepathihalli, Doug Reid, Dustin Tran, Dustin Zelle,
Eric Noland, Erwin Huizenga, Eugene Kharitonov, Frederick Liu, Gagik Amirkhanyan, Glenn Cameron, Hadi
Hashemi, Hanna Klimczak-Plucinska, Harman Singh, ´
Harsh Mehta, Harshal Tushar Lehri, Hussein Hazimeh,
Ian Ballantyne, Idan Szpektor, Ivan Nardini, Jean PougetAbadie, Jetha Chan, Joe Stanton, John Wieting, Jonathan
Lai, Jordi Orbay, Joseph Fernandez, Josh Newlan,
Ju yeong Ji, Jyotinder Singh, Kat Black, Kathy Yu, Kevin
Hui, Kiran Vodrahalli, Klaus Greff, Linhai Qiu, Marcella
Valentine, Marina Coelho, Marvin Ritter, Matt Hoffman,
Matthew Watson, Mayank Chaturvedi, Michael Moynihan, Min Ma, Nabila Babar, Natasha Noy, Nathan Byrd,
Nick Roy, Nikola Momchev, Nilay Chauhan, Noveen
Sachdeva, Oskar Bunyan, Pankil Botarda, Paul Caron,
Paul Kishan Rubenstein, Phil Culliton, Philipp Schmid,
Pier Giuseppe Sessa, Pingmei Xu, Piotr Stanczyk, Pouya
Tafti, Rakesh Shivanna, Renjie Wu, Renke Pan, Reza
Rokni, Rob Willoughby, Rohith Vallu, Ryan Mullins,
Sammy Jerome, Sara Smoot, Sertan Girgin, Shariq Iqbal,
Shashir Reddy, Shruti Sheth, Siim Poder, Sijal Bhat- ˜
nagar, Sindhu Raghuram Panyam, Sivan Eiger, Susan
Zhang, Tianqi Liu, Trevor Yacovone, Tyler Liechty, Uday
Kalra, Utku Evci, Vedant Misra, Vincent Roseberry,
Vlad Feinberg, Vlad Kolesnikov, Woohyun Han, Woosuk
Kwon, Xi Chen, Yinlam Chow, Yuvein Zhu, Zichuan
Wei, Zoltan Egyed, Victor Cotruta, Minh Giang, Phoebe
Kirk, Anand Rao, Kat Black, Nabila Babar, Jessica Lo,
Erica Moreira, Luiz Gustavo Martins, Omar Sanseviero,
Lucas Gonzalez, Zach Gleicher, Tris Warkentin, Vahab
Mirrokni, Evan Senter, Eli Collins, Joelle Barral, Zoubin
Ghahramani, Raia Hadsell, Yossi Matias, D. Sculley, Slav
Petrov, Noah Fiedel, Noam Shazeer, Oriol Vinyals, Jeff
Dean, Demis Hassabis, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Clement
Farabet, Elena Buchatskaya, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Rohan Anil, Dmitry, Lepikhin, Sebastian Borgeaud, Olivier
Bachem, Armand Joulin, Alek Andreev, Cassidy Hardin,
Robert Dadashi, and Leonard Hussenot. Gemma 3 ´
technical report, 2025. 6
[79] Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matt Le. Flow matching for generative
modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02747, 2022. 6, 16
[80] Diederik Kingma and Ruiqi Gao. Understanding diffusion objectives as the elbo with simple data augmentation. In A. Oh, T. Naumann, A. Globerson, K. Saenko,
M. Hardt, and S. Levine, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 36, pages 65484–
65516, 2023. 6, 16
[81] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai,
Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon
Jakubczak, Tim Jones, Liyiming Ke, Sergey Levine,
Adrian Li-Bell, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl
Pertsch, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, James Tanner, Quan Vuong,
Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, and Ury Zhilinsky. π0:
A vision-language-action flow model for general robot
control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024. 8
[82] David McAllister, Songwei Ge, Brent Yi, Chung Min
Kim, Ethan Weber, Hongsuk Choi, Haiwen Feng, and
Angjoo Kanazawa. Flow matching policy gradients,
2025. 9, 16, 17
[83] Zhengpeng Xie, Qiang Zhang, Fan Yang, Marco Hutter,
and Renjing Xu. Simple policy optimization. In Fortysecond International Conference on Machine Learning
(ICML), 2025. 9, 17
[84] Henry Zhu, Justin Yu, Abhishek Gupta, Dhruv Shah,
Kristian Hartikainen, Avi Singh, Vikash Kumar, and
Sergey Levine. The ingredients of real-world robotic reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.12570,
2020. 11
[85] Archit Sharma, Kelvin Xu, Nikhil Sardana, Abhishek
Gupta, Karol Hausman, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Autonomous reinforcement learning: Formalism
and benchmarking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.09605,
2021. 11
[86] Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Brian Ichter, Michael Equi, Liyiming Ke, Karl Pertsch, Quan Vuong, James Tanner,
Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Niccolo Fusai, et al.
Hi robot: Open-ended instruction following with hierarchical vision-language-action models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.19417, 2025. 11
APPENDIX
A. Contributions
Data collection and operations. Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn,
Lachy Groom, Hunter Hancock, Karol Hausman, Rowan Jen,
Liyiming Ke, Marinda Lamb, Vishnu Mano, Suraj Nair, Charvi
Sharma, Laura Smith, Will Stoeckle, Anna Walling, Blake
Williams.
Annotation and supplemental data. Chelsea Finn, Catherine
Glossop, Hunter Hancock, Brian Ichter, Rowan Jen, Liyiming
Ke, Chandra Kuchi, Karl Pertsch, Laura Smith, Will Stoeckle,
Quan Vuong, Anna Walling.
Policy training and research. Ashwin Balakrishna, Kevin
Black, Danny Driess, Michael Equi, Yunhao Fang, Chelsea
Finn, Catherine Glossop, Karol Hausman, Gashon Hussein,
Brian Ichter, Liyiming Ke, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Suraj
Nair, Karl Pertsch, Allen Z. Ren, Lucy Shi, Laura Smith,
Jost Tobias Springenberg, Kyle Stachowicz, Alex Swerdlow,
Marcel Torne, Quan Vuong, Lili Yu, Zhiyuan Zhou.
Policy infrastructure. Kevin Black, Karan Dhabalia, Danny
Driess, Michael Equi, Liyiming Ke, Adrian Li-Bell, Suraj Nair,
Allen Z. Ren, Laura Smith, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Kyle
Stachowicz, Alex Swerdlow, Haohuan Wang, Ury Zhilinsky,
Zhiyuan Zhou.
Robot hardware. Ali Amin, Raichelle Aniceto, Grace Connors, Adnan Esmail, Thomas Godden, Ivan Goryachev, Tim
Jones, Ben Katz, Devin LeBlanc, Mohith Mothukuri, Sukwon
Yoo.
Robot infrastructure. Ken Conley, James Darpinian, Jared
DiCarlo, Karol Hausman, Szymon Jakubczak, James Tanner.
Writing and illustration. Kevin Black, Danny Driess,
Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Hunter Hancock, Karol Hausman,
Brian Ichter, Liyiming Ke, Sergey Levine, Suraj Nair, Allen
Z. Ren, Laura Smith, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Zhiyuan Zhou
B. Additional Value Function Visualization
Figure 13 shows additional visualizations of our trained
value function on five different tasks, including tasks on which
we evaluate our policies (espresso making, box assembly) and
also broader tasks (hang towel, attach hook). The parts with
the most prominent changes are highlighted: red corresponds
to where value function drops, green corresponds to where
value function increases, and yellow corresponds to oscillating
values. Images show the corresponding frames and description
of the episode.
C. Computing the log-likelihood for policy improvement
To derive the log-likelihood from Equation (4) we can first
observe that we can decompose the full model likelihood into
autoregressive and diffusion terms
πθ(at:t+H, a
ℓ
t:t+H,
ˆℓ|It, ot, ℓ) =
πθ(at:t+H|It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)πθ(a
ℓ
t:t+H|It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)πθ(
ˆℓ|It, ot, ℓ),
(6)
where the first term is modeled with flow matching, the second
term is the autoregressive likelihood of the discretized actions
a
ℓ
t:t+H, and the third term corresponds to the autoregressive
text likelihood. The autoregressive likelihoods can be estimated in the usual way, using the cross-entropy loss evaluated
on ground truth tokens. For the continuous likelihood over
at:t+H, a closed form likelihood is not available [79]. We
can, however follow prior work [82], and consider the one-step
diffusion process as a Gaussian distribution with likelihood
logπθ(at:t+H|a
η,ω
1:H, It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ) =
log N

ω − fθ(a
η,ω
1:H, It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ), I

,
(7)
with a
η,ω
t:t+H = ηat:t+H + (1 − η)ω and ω = N (0, I). From
this we can form an evidence lower bound to the likelihood
following [80, 82] (effectively marginalizing over η and ω)
which yields
logπθ(at:t+H|It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ) ≥
1
2
Eη,ωh
− w(η)



ω − a1:H − fθ(a
η,ω
1:H, It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)



2 i
+ c,
(8)
where w(η) = e
−η/2
is a noise dependent weighting term,
and c is a constant independent of fθ. For the derivation,
see [80], which also derives the relationship between flow
matching and diffusion in Appendix D.3 for this choice of
weighting term. Finally putting the lower bound together with
the autoregressive likelihood for the discretized action part of
the text output ˆℓ, and subsuming the weighting terms in α,
gives
log πθ(at:t+H, a
ℓ
t:t+H|It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ) ≥
Eη,ωh
log pθ(a
ℓ
t:t+H|It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)
− αη



ω − a1:H − fθ(a
η,ω
1:H, It, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)



2 i
,
(9)
which is the bound given in the main part of the paper.
Drops portafilter multiple times Succeeds & continues
Successfully building a cardboard box Right arm drops towel Tidy Successfully hangs towel
Tries to attach the hook but the hook flies off due to unstable hold
Fig. 13: Additional visualization of value function on five different tasks.
Red parts highlight places where value drops, green parts highlight places
where value increases, and yellow parts highlight oscillating value regions.
Images show the corresponding frames and descriptions of the episode.
D. PPO implementation
We implement a variant of PPO [66] related to DPPO and
FPO [23, 82] and use it as an additional baseline. To allow for
training both the autoregressive part of the model as well as the
diffusion based action expert in a compute effective manner
we calculate likelihoods based on the single step diffusion
objective alone.
In particular, we use a likelihood bound analogous to Eq.
(9) (previous section) but without the improvement indicator.
Decomposing into autoregressive and flow-matching terms this
can be written as
log πθ(at:t+H, a
ℓ
t:t+H|ot, ℓ, ˆℓ) ≥
Eη,ωh
log pθ(a
ℓ
t:t+H|ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)
− αη



ω − a1:H − fθ(a
η,ω
1:H, ot, ℓ, ˆℓ)



2 i
,
(10)
which is analogous to the diffusion likelihood bound used in
FPO [82]. And we combine it with a PPO style loss separated
into diffusion and autoregressive terms. In preliminary experiments we found that for our setting it was difficult to enforce
a trust region constraint on the action expert (which models
actions with an unbounded diffusion head) when using the
standard PPO clipping objective. Presumably, this is partially
due to the “offline” nature of our algorithm setting, where
we cannot afford to collect new data from real robots every
few gradient steps. To stabilize training we found using an
alternative definition of the PPO constraint following SPO [83]
to be effective. The resulting loss is given as:
LSP O+CoV LA(θ) =
(
πθ(aℓˆ ∈ ˆℓ|ot, ℓ)
πref(aℓˆ ∈ ˆℓ|ot, ℓ)
A
πref(ot, at, ℓ)
−
|Aπref(ot, at, ℓ)|
2ϵar "
πθ(aℓˆ ∈ ˆℓ|ot, ℓ)
πref(aℓˆ ∈ ˆℓ|ot, ℓ)
− 1
#)
+α
(
πθ(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)
πref(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)
A
πref(ot, at, ℓ)
−
|Aπref(ot, at, ℓ)|
2ϵflow "
πθ(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)
πref(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)
− 1
#),
(11)
where α is a trade-off parameter and ϵar, ϵflow are trust-region
parameters for autoregressive and flow-matching model parts
respectively. We use this variant to perform training on eval
data starting from the π0.6 checkpoint.
E. Using CFG for test-time policy improvement with β > 1
After training we can choose to further sharpen the policy
used for evaluation by setting β > 1 in Eq. (2). As shown in
prior work [4] we can recover this sharpened policy without
additional training since it is implicitly defined by the learned
policies πθ(at:t+H|It, ot, ℓ) and πθ(at:t+H|ot, ℓ). Specifically,
after training we can form the approximation
πˆ(at:t+H|ot, ℓ) ∝ πref(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)

πref(at:t+H|It, ot, ℓ)
πref(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)
β
.
(12)
One can now realize that the diffusion model effectively
learns the gradient of the likelihoods, i.e. it represents
∇a log πθ(at:t+H|It, ot, ℓ) and ∇a log πθ(at:t+H|ot, ℓ) respectively. From this, following Frans et al. [4], we can see
that if we run flow-matching inference following the gradient
∇a log πθ(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)+
β(∇a log πθ(at:t+H|It, ot, ℓ) − ∇a log πθ(at:t+H|ot, ℓ)),
(13)
we are effectively sampling from the desired attenuated distribution. We note that, as mentioned in the main paper, the
parameter β is loosely connected to the advantage threshold
ϵℓ that we introduce during training (in the sense that both
sharpen the distribution, one at inference and one at training
time). We find that sharpening the distribution after training
with high settings for β can lead to pushing the action distribution towards the boundaries of its learned support (which can
lead to overly aggressive motions) and thus primarily rely on ϵℓ
for obtaining a good conditioned policy directly after training
and combine it with moderate settings (e.g. β ∈ [1.5, 2.5])
where useful.
F. Additional algorithm details
We describe details for setting the task specific parameters
used in Algorithm 1.
Advantage Estimation: During post-training, we estimate
the advantage function using Aπ
(ot, at) = Pt+N−1
t
′=t
r
′
t +
V
π
(ot+N ) − V
π
(ot), where ot+N is an observation sampled
from N steps ahead from the same trajectory. We use N = 50
lookahead to calculate this advantage. During pre-training, we
calculate the advantage estimate as Aπ
(ot, at) = PT
t
′=0 r
′
t −
V
π
(ot), setting N = T for each episode, which is a higher
variance estimate of the advantage. We use this advantage
calculation since it allows us to calculate the advantage values
on-the-fly during pre-training using a single inference call to
the value function. We find empirically that this advantage
estimate works well when the policy is trained on large
amounts of data from diverse tasks during pre-training.
Advantage conditioning dropout: During training, we
randomly drop out the conditioning on the advantage indicator 30% of the time. We employ this dropout so that we
can directly sample directly from either the conditional or
unconditional policy during inference time and use CFG for
test-time policy improvement (see Section E for details); and
it effectively replaces the loss multiplier α.
Advantage threshold: The per task advantage threshold ϵℓ
is set as follows. During pre-training we select the threshold
for each task such that approximately 30% of the demonstration data has positive advantage (as calculatedd on a random
sample of 10k datapoints). During fine-tuning we generally set
the threshold such that approximately 40% of the evaluation
rollouts in each iteration have positive advantage. For the Tshirt and shorts laundry folding task (in which training on
high-quality demonstration data yields slow policies but with
high success rate) we increase the threshold such that only
approximately 10% of the data has positive advantage.
Dataset composition: We use the dataset aggregation strategy described in Algorithm 1 for all tasks. However each
of our task has distinct nature: the episode lengths vary, the
performances of Iteration 0 model on each task are different, and one task (Assemble Box) is performed offsite in a
deployment scenario. Therefore, we have different amount of
demonstration data to begin with and collect different amounts
of experience data for iterative improvement. For laundry (Tshirt and shorts), we use autonomous evaluation data only
without expert corrections. As we push model performance to
closely resemble the expert data collector in terms of speed,
it becomes hard to provide corrections. For this task, We
collect 300 episodes across 4 robot stations for reporting eval
performance. For the diverse laundry folding task we collect
450 evaluation episodes and 287 correction episodes. For the
failure mode removal ablation we collect both autonomous and
policy correction data. In total we collect ∼ 1000 autonomous
and 280 + 378 correction episodes spread over 3 robots. For
box assembly we collect data in the deployment scenario
directly, collecting 600 demonstrations and 360 correction
episodes in each iteration, using 3 robots in total. For cafe we
perform a single iteration and collect 429 correction episodes
as well as 414 autonomous episodes.